Introduction

ScottishGlen (the client) is a medium-sized company within the energy sector. After recovering from
a recent security incident, management is looking at ways to improve the company’s security
posture. A security consultant has advised that the company should consider the CIS Critical Security
Controls1. According to the CIS a good first step is tracking enterprise assets within the company.
This will allow the company to better manage its network and reduce the risk of future security
incidents.
The company has hired you to design and develop a lightweight Asset Tracking System which can be
used to manage assets on the network. The software should be implemented to the specifications of
the client, which are provided below.


Client Brief

The client requests that a software system is designed and developed to track assets within the
company. All asset information should be stored in an online database. It is envisioned that this
database could be used by other company systems in the future and thus descriptive and consistent
naming conventions should be used.
Assets include any hardware being used on the company network. It must be possible to add, view,
edit, or delete asset data. A unique identifier should be automatically generated for each asset. The
client would like the software to automatically get hardware data from the system on which it is
running including system name, model, manufacturer, type, and IP address. Some assets have a
physical sticker with the purchase date, which would be useful to capture. It should also be possible
for a text note to be added, which can contain any extra data the company may want to capture
about the specific asset.
Each asset is linked to an employee who is responsible for it. It should be possible to add, edit or
delete employee data. The first name, last name, and email address of the employee should be
stored. Note that an employee may be responsible for one or more assets.
Employees work within a department, which should also be captured. The departments within
ScottishGlen include finance, human resources, operations, sales, and information technology.
Departments will remain static and thus the ability to edit or delete department data are not
required.
The system must make data acquisition as easy as possible. It is expected that database
communication will have a minimal response time, and that screen refresh time will not delay entry
of data. Clear instructions must be visible to the user who will capture asset data, and a minimal
learning curve is expected (user training time should be less than 30 minutes). The client operates a
Microsoft environment, and the system must be able to run as a desktop application on a Windows
machine.

1 https://www.cisecurity.org/controls/cis-controls-list
